Final Project Checkpoint 1 Summary: (CODE DOES NOT COMPLETELY RUN)

The journey to checkpoint one was interesting. I spent the first class day solidifying my understanding of the DTW algorithm by doing more research. I created a proof of concept in regular python outside of class. The next workday I outlined my pseudocode for the Nengo conversion and started testing bits of it at a time. However, I soon realized that I made an error in my initial plan: I assumed that I could use a piecewise function or a sin / cos input into a neuron to be able to implement the algorithm. Working on this fundamental assumption, I created almost half of my code for the cost matrix before realizing that each spot in the matrix needs to be its own neuron ensemble, and therefore I would have to simulate a temporal input by creating a list of constant values and creating neuron representations of these values before implementing several transformations to implement the desired formula. Therefore, I had to redesign the cost matrix to accomodate this change. The code under the markdown "CREATE THE SIN AND COS MATRICES" is regular python code that I wrote as the final data set to run - it collects the (x,y) pairs of the sin and cos functions in increments of x = 0.02 to ultimately feed to the Nengo model. In the meantime, I intend to use the test curves to test the creation of the matrix. 

My goal for checkpoint 1 was to have the entire cost matrix complete. Due to my misunderstanding of the problem, this is not completely done. This is because in its current implementation, I am mixing calculations between actual numbers and neuron representations. The way to fix this will be to implement a sorting algorithm to calculate the minimum neighbor of each position in the matrix. After this is done, the cost matrix will be completely finished.

I still intend on moving onto modifying my path-planning algorithm by next class. If that goes well, I am going to modify my future checkpoints to include modeling voice data with the neurons much earlier than expected.